Now let's make a couple of links in this
navbar so that we can visit the page easily.
Let's go back to our editor and then go to spa.blade.php
and here in navbar brand instead of using normal anchor
we can now leverage another component that provided
by vue router
we can make use router link we can specify the class attribute
in this case navbar brand then the most important is `to` attribute.
You can think of the to attribute like `href` in anchor tag.
So here we can set it to root or because
we've also name our route path
here we can call the name instead of the path. So we need to bind this `to` and pass in an object. Inside
here we can simply say name colon path name
In this case home
now we can get rid of this anchor tag.
All right let's add more links.
You can put them in the left side or the right side of the navbar
here I'll put them in the right side.
Firstly here we need to make a list item
and it's gonna have a class nav item just bootstrap stuff
then inside this list item
we can add router link it's gonna have a class bootstrap
nav-link then it's going to point to questions route.
So here will say to name questions
and the text is going to be questions
let's duplicate this list item
and change the target to my posts
and change the text to my posts. Okay
let's save this change back to the browser
reload hit
the link
we have questions page. Hit this one we have current users post and if we hit the navbar brand we also get
the questions page.
Great.
Now the smal issue that we have here is we don't have proper bootstrap active menu when we switch the pages.
Actually
here we have different color for active menu but
this is not the proper way. The proper way is to add
bootstrap class in the current menu item.
So let's inspect element
as you can see vue router inject some classes for the current anchor.
But here we need to add active class here in the list item.
So as you can see now the menu item marked as active menu.
So let's do that
in our code.
So let's switch back over to our editor
and here to attach the active class dynamically when
the routes changing we cannot use a normal
list item tag.
So to do that we need to make a bit
change to this router link components.
Here we can change the router link
behavior by specify the `tag` attribute.
Firstly let's get rid of this list item tag in here
entirely. I can simply select this first list item
I'll have command d to select another
instance then I'll cut the class
I'll delete the list item opening tag
then I'll go to list item closing  tag then I'll delete them
go to the left my hitting command left arrow hit the delete
then after router link I'll paste the class
and specify tag equals `li` after that I'll cut the old class attribute
then I need to add anchor tag inside this
component. I'll pass a class in here
and lastly I need to close the anchor tag
so by doing this way the router link component acts
like list item because we've specify the tag as `li`
but here we don't need to move the `to` attribute
to the anchor because vue router will take care of that
for us.
Now you might be thinking where we put the active
class? Well we'll do that later on for now let's save
these changes and see in our browser
let's inspect element on this
here we still have this item and now you'll see in
here we have router link exact active router link active
and you might be wondering where these classes come from?
Well actually it's the default classes to indicate
that the path is matches with the router link.
But this is not what we expected
because we need active class instead.
So how can we solve this?
Well actually you have two options.
First you need to define the router link active class in your css file
Second you need to override the router link active to active.
So for this case I prefer to take the second option. To do that
let's switch back over to our editor then open router index js
and here in vue router option we can specify
link active class equals active that's it.
Now if we save this back to our browser
and reload the page
now you'll see we have the proper active class and
here we can visually see the active menu item.
All right let's move on the next video where we'll see
how to protect a particular route using vue router
navigation guard.